Qualitative analysis of the database contents in University curriculum Degree in Computer Science in the EHEA
ABSTRACT
This communication is part of a comprehensive study of theoretical and practical research that deals with the basics they need to have students in grades Computer Engineering, in their different specializations, in order to acquire the competences in the different plans study. Specifically, we have used data on concepts about Databases 18 curricula in Computer Grade Spanish public universities, among which arewww: University of Almeria (Andalusia), University of Extremadura (Extremadura), University of Oviedo (Asturias), University of Burgos (Castilla y León), University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria (Canary Islands), University of Zaragoza (Aragon), University of the Balearic Islands (Baleares), University of Valencia (Valencia), University of Vigo (Galicia), University Politécnica de Madrid (Madrid), University of Barcelona (Catalonia), University of Castilla La Mancha (Castilla La Mancha), University of Cantabria (Cantabria), University of Rioja (La Rioja), University of Murcia (Murcia), Public University of Navarra (Navarre), University of País Vasco (Basque Country) and National University of Distance Education (UNED). Also, we have used data on concepts Database 4 curricula Database of foreign universities between are: MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) (USA), University of Berkeley (U.S.), Imperial College London (UK) and University of Manchester (UK). The interest of this research is the need to adapt university studies plans in Spain to the European Higher Education Area (EHEA). This obliged the design and implementation of new curricula in Spanish universities. In our field of work we consider it necessary to study the content on the new curriculum in Computer called, in most cases, Degrees in Computer Science. In summary, we were interested to analyze, in these degrees in Computer Science, the subject content of databases. We focused on content that are part of the fundamentals or basic concepts that students need to know when dealing with first-time databases. The curricula were analyzed by performing a qualitative analysis software NVIVO v.8.0, resulting in 164 simple categories that form the subject content of the curriculum of subjects Database. Starting from these and grouping by topic, we have obtained 10 categories, which are referred to by a single name simple the categories that have some relationship between them.
