Digital technologies — Apps — and the cognitive skills of older adults: Results of an investigation at USALBI (Universidade Senior Albicastrense)
ABSTRACT
In recent decades, societies have endured a major challenge: the aging of the population. The main reasons may be related to the decline in fertility rates, increased life expectancy, improved healthcare and the incorporation of healthier living habits, providing conditions for active aging. Active aging is a theme addressed by professionals who more directly that are related to the aging process. In this context, it is important to analyze and promote actions with the elderly population for this can be an integral and active part of the digital society, because increasingly the exercise of civic rights and duties to be carried out through digital platforms. At present, the digital society implies that all citizens are equipped with digital skills, in this particular case, given that the elderly population is referred to as computer exclusion population, it is urgent to create conditions to promote their digital inclusion that will enable them to true social inclusion thus providing active aging. Given the physiological and cognitive decline associated with aging is important to promote initiatives to prevent situations that could increase dementia among the elderly. In particular, there are already a number of digital applications (APPs) that aim to stimulation and cognitive training. In this research, we were used APPs in this area (Peak and Neuronation) which involved a sample of 18 seniors who attended USALBI (Universidade Sénior Albicastrense). This Project Workseeks to ascertain whether the use of digital applications (APPs) Peak & Neuronation can contribute to active aging of the elderly, with regard to cognitive training that they provide. In addition to the 18 elderlies, as students of computer course USALBI, where it made a non-participant observation in 12 practice sessions of APPs Peak & Neuronation and applied questionnaire surveys and these old, was also involved one professional of Social Gerontology and an expert in the field of ICT through semi-structured interviews to ascertain their views concerning digital applications involved in the study. After the triangulation of data can be said that the views expressed were agreed regarding the added value of the APPs Peak & Neuronation in cognitive training where it involved the memory valences; language; mental agility; reasoning; speed; flexibility; coordination; attention; focus; concentration; perception; troubles hooting; mental calculations; emotion and will power. From the analysis of the data, it was found that the APPs can be referred to as digital tools in the cognitive training of older people.
