Dependence in self-care with comorbidity, indicators of nursing care and contributions to an ontology of aging: Systematic review of the literature
ABSTRACT
Background: Rehabilitation Nursing assumes a fundamental role in contemporary society in the response to the installation of new paradigms of chronic illness and dependence, induced by demographic aging and the advent of a large number of associated comorbidities. Health indicators sensitive to Rehabilitation Nursing care reflect how these nurses contribute to the health of the population in order to achieve health gains. It is necessary to define and contribute to the ontology of aging, which will allow, using machine learning processes, to provide foundations for knowledge acquisition and support for professional decision-making. Objective: To determine the indicators to be included in the ontology of aging, in relation to nursing care of rehabilitation of dependent elderly people in self-care with various comorbidities. Methods: A systematic review of the literature was carried out. Articles published between 2012 and 2017 were selected by searching the MEDLINE, CINAHL and MedicLatina database, using PI [C] OS methodology, resulting in the selection of 11 articles. Results: We identified 30 sensitive indicators of Rehabilitation Nursing care in relation to the dependent person in self-care with comorbidity. As a proposal for inclusion in the ontology of aging. From the qualitative synthesis of the indicators, improvements were observed in the variables: Readaptation and Functional Reeducation; Wellness and Self Care; Symptom Control; Prevention of Complications; Psychological Support; Customer Satisfaction; Use of Health Services; Quality of Life; Promotion of Social Inclusion; Self-management of Disease and Health Promotion. Conclusions: This systematic review of the literature, which is part of the development of an ontology of aging and its integration into the discipline of Rehabilitation Nursing, aims to provide valid contributions to the corpus of knowledge on which its practice is based. The recognition of indicators sensitive to rehabilitation nursing care is an opportunity for reflection on praxis and a means of conducting to excellence in care and the development of the ontology of aging in international terms.
