Integration of virtual programming lab in a process of teaching programming EduScrum based
ABSTRACT
Learning programming languages is essential for computer applications development and naturally for the technology evolution. The conventional teaching model of the subjects of initiation to programming is based on a set of tasks that usually result in a series of difficulties for the students which leads to an exhaustive monitoring by the teachers. It turns out that one of the main problems is that students often do not know if their work is correct (i.e. whether it works for a pre-defined data set) until it is reviewed and evaluated by the teacher. In this context, the Virtual Learning Environment becomes an attractive and interesting tool to help teach (and learn) programming. One of these tools is VPL (Virtual Programming Lab) a plugin of Moodle (Modular Object-Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment). We believe that the use of VPL may represent a paradigm shift for students, but also, and especially for teachers, because teachers will have to spend much more time upstream to prepare tasks and activities, test the environment and verify validation of the data. However, it is important to note that downstream teacher effort can significantly reduce because students do not need as much attention given that feedback on the quality and functionality of the code developed is immediate. This work is a part of a PhD in Research at Information Technology in the University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain, and has been developed from the last 12 months. This Ph.D. research aims to analyze the VPL's integration potential in the programming teaching-learning process in higher education. It also aims to verify if, with VPL, it is possible to make student's learning more effective and autonomous, with less time and effort spent by teachers in assignments evaluation. In the present article, we will present a work-in-progress where we will show how VPL was introduced in a teaching-learning process supported on JAVA programming. The teaching method uses EduScrum methodology and is included in the course of Computer Engineering of the Department of Informatics Engineering of the School of Engineering of the Polytechnic Institute of Porto (ISEP / P.PORTO). The first results of this process will be presented.
