Analysis of User Interaction in the Schedule of Consultantations and Exams via Smartphone
ABSTRACT
The contribution of interaction design in improving the experience of using applications installed in the new generation of smartphone represents a research dimension of interest. The article discusses the design of a software application designed to be installed on smartphones and to be used by only one hand. Through the design of an ergonomic interface, according to the anatomy of the human hand, new forms of interaction and the use of this type of devices were studied. The study presented in this paper seeks to identify if the adaptation of people at the time of interaction is due to the dimensions of the device or if that interaction is also constrained because of design issues. Some applications present an inadequate interface, which has not evolved and does not introduce new methods of interaction for promoting interactions that require the use of only one hand. The article explores synergies between Interaction Design, Human and Ergonomic Factors, and Information Architecture. The methodology chosen for the development of this project was the Agile Design Science Research (ADSR) applied to a specific case study. The proposed solution uses service design thinking techniques with context-awareness mechanisms applied to the healthcare sector. In the context of the case study, the research challenges focus mainly on monitoring the impact of the proposed solution on streamlining the interaction of the customer-segment with the customer care service provider in the healthcare institution, using mobile devices. Such dematerialization of processes transfers customer interaction to new channels, reducing the need to travel to the institution for simple administrative processes. The value proposal, therefore, focuses on a set of services for self-management of the information necessary for the client to be able to interact more comfortably with the customer service provider in the healthcare institution.
