Results and Trends in educational MOOCs in the engineering area with MIRIADAX platform. A case study
ABSTRACT
MOOC (Massive Online Open Courses) courses have revolutionate the relationship between society and higher education institutions. Through web platforms, universities and other institutions offer content and courses where any student can enroll. The promising future of MOOC courses and their great popularity was due, in large part, to their initial philosophy, in which a new global service would convert the uninitiated into higher education into online students worldwide and with Offers from the best universities, especially in places with limited access. Over the years they have evolved and changed their orientation. And in a way it loses its initial interest as a resource in an area with few educational resources. However, this new methodology "at a distance", fits very well with the current demands of students, who want greater autonomy and ability to manage their time. And it is with this orientation that MOOC courses may currently have greater potential. Thus, there are few universities that in one way or another (training itineraries, inverted classroom, etc.) are trying to integrate MOOCs into regulated teaching. It is necessary, therefore, an exhaustive educational investigation of the proposal and its performance to be able to make decisions in the medium term. Thus, we describe a case study, in which a MOOC course has been designed and deployed in the electronic engineering area, in accordance with the contents of a first level university course. We wanted to find out, in a special way, the interest and preference of MOOC courses of students who begin engineering studies compared to other learning methods used, in an usual way, in both traditional and other current university studies, “online” or with multimedia resources. For it, a t-test has been carried out at the end of the course. The results obtained surprisingly value the MOOC course over the other learning resources presented. On the other hand, we have analyzed the performance of the students and their academic results, as well as the level of achievement of the planned objectives and the overall satisfaction of the participants.
