Unlocking the Potential of Procurement 4.0 : The Role of Digitalization, Industry 4.0, and Information Systems
ABSTRACT
This study presents a systematic review of the impact of Industry 4.0, digitalization, and information systems on the procurement function. The benefits and obstacles of these technologies in transitioning procurement into a more strategic role are analyzed. By examining existing literature, critical factors for organizations to consider when implementing these technologies and the potential benefits are identified. The results indicate that digitalization has resulted in a data-driven approach to procurement, with the aid of advanced analytics and artificial intelligence for decision-making. Industry 4.0 has facilitated smarter factories, warehouses, and logistics operations with a focus on automation, connectivity, and real-time data. Procurement can more efficiently manage suppliers, track contracts, and identify cost-saving opportunities with the aid of information systems. This study’s main purpose is to review the most recent literature upon this topic, and to identify the potential opportunities and challenges for organizations. Overall, this study provides insightful information regarding the potential of Industry 4.0 and its implications for different contexts. The article’s structure begins with a framework about the main subjects that are addressed in this paper. Then the used methodology is presented, as well as the respective results of the academic research based on the chosen criteria. Thirdly, unlike other systematic literature reviews, the main objectives and results of each article are not individually described, instead this literature review is written in a story-telling perspective, explaining the importance of digitalization nowadays, the procurement process and its implications, and finally the relationship between these two domains, with limited recourse only to the articles that resulted from the information filtering performed in the methodology. At last, we draw the final conclusions by linking all reviewed articles, and by suggesting some future research.
